# Incident: 2025-04-08 12-38-00

## Summary

Between the time of 12:38 and 13:08 MDT, there was an outage on the Pizza Factory connection for all users that caused any order made during this time to fail. The event seems to have been triggered by something that happened at the Pizza Factory. The factory was denying all requests made to it to buy Pizzas. It was sending back an error code with a link to report the problem at. Upon reporting the issue with this link, the connection problems were resolved and orders once again went through. This event was dectected by a sudden uptick in both failed orders and also through a sudden uptick in error reports to the logger. The system did send out a alert to all people on the clock, where it was quickly acknowledged and shortly later resolved.

## Detection

Due to my worry over this assignment, the chaos was detected around the first minute that it started. I was watching the error logs and health of the system, so I beat my alarms to the punch. The alarm that went off for this was an alarm that is looking for error reports in the logs. It is a simple "Make sure this doesn't go past x errors in 15 minutes" alarm, though if this were to be in a real senario, this alarm would instead go off of a sudden average increase of error reports to the logs. That, or re-write invalid logins to not show up as an error in the logs. The Alarm notified me via a notification on my phone.

As for improvments that can happen, I have an example. There was a false alarm at 08:30 MDT, of which I finally responded to it 1 hour later. This is a very slow response time, and it was due to me not allowing Garfana to make noise when it had an alert. I resolved this issue by changing the settings in my app to override the ringer and make noise to either wake me up or get my attention. As seen with above, this would have cut down on the response time by about 50 minutes.

## Impact

for exactly 30 minutes, between 12:38 and 13:08 MDT on 8 April 2025, there was an outage between the communication between this instance ot JWT-Pizza, and the Pizza Factory. Any user who made an order during this time would of had their order fail. This affected 20 orders. If you tried to make an order during this time, it will not have gone through and it will not have charged you.

## Timeline

ALL TIMES ARE MDT:
- 12:38 - a problem was detected by one of the on call people, pizza orders were failing.
- 12:45 - first alert was sounded by system detecting a problem, also alerting those who were on call.
- 13:08 - error was resolved by sending the report to the Pizza Factory. They resolved the issue on their end with that report being sent

## Response

Upon seeing errors in the logs, Ash (Andrew) Hammond resopneded to the alert. They were already online and observing the situation and started looking into the problem and looking at logs. They also recieved the alert 7 minutes later.

## Root cause

The Pizza Factory was failing any order that came to them from this instance of JWT-Pizza.

## Resolution

The resolution was to report the issue to the Pizza Factory by going to the link they gave in the error log.

## Prevention

This has no other similar root causes and seems to be a one time issue.

## Action items

This was not on our end, so there is not a lot that we can do with the instance to fix this problem. However, the downtime can be reduced in the future if this or a similar problem were to arise by both reading the alert that was generated, and by also looking at the reponse from the Pizza Factory in the logs. I (the person who responded to this) was execting something to be in the code that causes the chaos, and as such skimmed over the logs and missed the very important and very prominent link to fix the issue. This falls under Occam's razor.
